Take away the damn fermentable fuels.
That's what you need to do. Why is that
so hard for anybody to understand?
Matter of fact, the mitochondria control
our destiny. How long we will live as an
entity on the planet is controlled by
the mitochondria. So, we're in the
business of killing tumor cells without
without toxicity. That's the key.
Dr. Seafrey, very uh excited to be
visiting with you again. It's been it's
been a couple years since uh we were
mutual guests on Lisa Fischer's podcast.
That was a fun little conversation that
we had. Uh she brought me in because I
was big on on your work uh the metabolic
aspect of trying to understand cancer uh
after my little boy was diagnosed. And
so I have read everything that you've
done, followed along for for years, and
just kept kept that ball going to try to
learn. So I want to really dive in with
you. You you've put out so much
information. I don't want to necessarily
just rehash everything you've done, but
what what you have recently put out uh
with a with a whole cohort of other
researchers is a new study uh and I want
to say it had a lot to do with
glyobblasto and understanding the keto
aspect of that. So if you don't care,
can you give us the overview and then
we'll dive in more into the details of
this study?
>> Yeah. Well, well, thank you Logan. Uh
listen that that we wrote um a paper in
called the press pulse therapeutic
strategy for managing cancer uh based
based on our new knowledge that cancer
is predominantly a mitochondrial
metabolic disease and not a genetic
disease. that that uh paper presented
the science and the uh structure or
outline um if you will uh for uh a
detailed clinical study that would use
press pulse metabolic therapy for for
managing uh cancer and in particular
glyobblasto which is a deadly a deadly
kind of of of brain cancer. So, so that
was the the skeletal uh structure uh for
that. But the paper we just that just
came out recently with Dr. Thomas Durier
uh as the first author and many other
physicians, nutritionists and scientists
um fleshes out uh the this the the um
outline of that original paper. In other
words, puts meat uh and what to do, how
to do it, and and why am I doing what
I'm doing. So um that is a very very
detailed description of how to manage uh
glyobblasto effectively uh with minimal
or no toxicity. Um and and uh Thomas and
and the rest of us uh recognized all of
the different issues that would be
confronted in uh in managing uh these
deadly cancers. And as a matter of fact,
uh it can be tweaked very very minimally
to be uh the the effective treatment for
all major cancers because all cancers
are a singular very similar type of
disease. They have a common
pathofysiological
problem. Uh they are they are um
restricted in using uh only two fuels
the glucose sugar and the glutamine
amino acid glutamine. So, so it's it's
in in a nutshell it tells it tells
people how to um bring down glucose uh
uh and um you raise ketones which could
be done by a number of different
procedures, diets and supplements and
things like this and uh and then and
then drug targeting glutamine. So it's a
diet drug
uh uh approach that simultaneously
restricts the two metabolites needed for
the tumor to grow and transitions the
body off uh to a fuel uh that the tumors
can't use. So the normal cells of the
body get healthier and healthier and the
tumor cells get weaker and weaker and
eventually are eliminated. So uh and
this will can be done with minimal or no
toxicity and the and the paper outlines
the strategies uh for doing this.
So the one thing that I think I would
like to get your take on is the whole
glutamine piece. um in a lot of the
alternative
uh you know cancer groups say Facebook
different things like that it's it's
really kind of this promotion of a low
glutamine diet and and I can't help but
think that that's a gross
misunderstanding of what you're saying.
So do you care to kind of dive into that
a little bit?
>> No, that's one of the big problem I
don't understand how people can get so
confused. I I try to dumb this down as
best I can and um and I and it's still
I'm sorry to say that there's still so
No, you're 100% correct. You cannot
lower glutamine with diet. You cannot
lower glutamine with diet. Logan, say
that. You cannot lower glutamine with
diet.
See, when I was in the army years ago,
we would learn things by repeating,
repeating, repeating, and even the
slowest witted guy would eventually get
the message.
That's army. That's the way we train
people in the military. So uh uh at
least in the old draft army when we had
when we had folks from every uh every
state in the in the country uh were
contributing there and we had to make
sure our knowledge base was everybody
knew exactly what was going on. Yes. So
people say oh I if oh do I can I eat
glutamine? Do I have to target
glutamine? No. No. The answer is we need
drugs. We have specific drugs that will
specifically pulse which means
intermittent targeting of glutamine with
a drug while the diet holds the glucose
down and elevates the ketones. You you
can't do that uh with a diet to target
glutamine. Glutamine is the most
abundant amino acid in the body. So now
we have some evidence. Yes. If you if
you have cancer and you have a very
aggressive tumor and you were to drink
gallons of fluid containing highdosese
glutamine all day long, it might make
the tumor grow a little faster. Yes. Uh
but nobody does that. This is like
nonsense. This is idiocy. So uh um but
the answer is no. If you don't have uh
cancer, having a high glutamine, having
glutamine in the diet has no no effect.
Even if you have cancer, there is enough
glutamine already in the bloodstream uh
that is going to be more than enough for
the tumor to use. So trying to say, "Oh,
I'm eating a piece of meat's going to
make my glutamine go up and the cancer
is going to grow faster." No, no, no.
It's not that.
If you want to learn how to implement
the ketogenic diet and the press pulse
protocol into your cancer management,
just visit school.com/ keto for cancer,
the new community by our research
analyst Johnny Rockermeer. Within this
new community platform, you can connect
with other patients and learn from their
experiences.
You can also just search through the
posts other members have already made.
You will have access to our classroom
section as well, which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results. These sections cover all parts
of the press pulse protocol that you
should implement.
Starting with the general scientific
concepts by Dr. Thomas Ciphford, we will
show you how to start the ketogenic
diet, including which foods to choose
and which to avoid. Additionally, we
prepared a list of doctors specialized
in metabolic therapy as well as details
about glutamine inhibition and
hyperbaric oxygen protocols. So, take a
look around at school.com/ keto for
cancer.
>> You have to target the glutamine with
drugs. You have to target the glutamine
with drugs. You don't have a diet that
can lower glutamine. You don't have a
diet that can lower glutamine. Why the
hell is that so damn hard for anybody to
understand?
>> It it apparently is pretty hard to uh
>> Apparently it is. I don't know. I I but
I It's It's not only in Arkansas where
they don't understand that. They don't
understand that in Minnesota either or
Boston or California. So
>> or around the world. I'm glad we got
that out of the way because
>> I think the root cause of what we or the
root foundation that I I would like to
get to is a lot of your take on
mitochondria, mitochondrial health, the
different ways in which we metabolize,
you know, beta oxidation, glycolysis,
ketosis, all all of the different ways
to support the mitochondria along with
some other things I would like to get
your take on. So, how do you think is
kind of the best way for us to
boost or take care of our mitochondria?
>> Yeah. Well, that's a very good question
because it's extremely difficult to get
cancer if you have healthy mitochondria.
And the mitochondria people should know.
Uh this is why we have the internet
which is really very helpful. People can
say, "Oh, what is the mitochondria?" And
if you go onto the internet, it says the
mitochondria is the powerhouse of the
cell. Um, and not only that, everybody
said, "What does that mean?" Well, it
makes most of the energy for the cell.
And and without energy, nothing can
grow. Okay? Nothing can live without
energy. You can talk about anything you
want. Uh, but when you uh when you have
no energy, uh, you you are uh
inefficient in many many ways and a cell
can't live. Cancer cells can't live
without energy. So, uh but cancer cells
have um have a defective energy
production through oxygen. Um and um
that uh causes the cell to switch slowly
over to a second form of energy which is
called fermentation energy. Energy
without oxygen. And this is the
signature metabolic uh effect. the the
the metabolic malady seen in all cancer
cells is they have mito the inefficiency
of mitochondrial energy production
through oxygen through oxygen. Uh so
they switch to um uh an alternative
ancient heirloomic form of energy which
is called fermentation. And this is why
it's absolutely essential to understand
evolutionary biology if one is to really
understand cancer because the cancer
cells are using these ancient pathways
that existed a billion years ago uh that
would derive disregulated growth and it
was all fermentation energy and uh when
those when I say that so these were
fuels there was no oxygen in the
atmosphere um we didn't have oxygen life
arose in an in anoxic environment
without oxygen and they grew very very
fast these singular cell proarotic
organisms and we have uh we we we have
archaeological records to show this. Um
fossil records of can you believe fossil
records of single cell organisms. Um but
the but the issue here is they would
grow uh very in a very disregulated way
uh until there was no fermentable fuels
in the environment and then they would
die. So the only thing keeping them
growing uh and they were not growing
regulated they because they had no
mitochondria uh uh they were
disregulated growth that's what cancer
is cancer is is disregulated growth um
uh cell growth out of control that's
what cancer is and uh and that's because
these cells are falling back on these
ancient pathways where all the cells at
that time were disregulated and would
die when the fermentable fuels in the
environment were dissipated. So, uh,
cancer cells are using the very similar
pathways. The problem, but we in the way
we treat cancer and the way we think
about it, we actually provide massive
doses of the two fuels allowing the cell
to survive. Uh, glucose and the amino
acid glutamine are very abundant in our
bodies. If we're if we have a car high
carbohydrate diet and and and and the
glutamine is already there. We can't
diet lower that. So we have to target
the glutamine with drugs and we have to
we can reduce glucose with diet. And
then those are the two fuels driving the
disregulated growth. And to protect the
normal cells of the body, we transition
the whole body over to over to ketones.
So ketone bodies uh mitochondria can
burn ketones. Um that's why water only
fasting exercise daily exercise
uh aerobic exercises um uh minimal
carbohydrate diets whether it's a
pescatarian carnivore whether whatever
the diet is it would have very low carbs
lot of exercise uh ketone supplements if
you will keep your mitochondria super
healthy uh it's then it becomes very
very hard to get cancer now you look at
who's getting can where's all these
cancer coming from we does anybody
notice that we have an obesity epidemic
or am I the only one who's noticed this?
Right. I did you ever notice that? Are
people in Arkansas all fit and healthy
looking?
>> No, we're pretty sick in Arkansas.
>> Did you ever see a fat person walking
around in Arkansas?
>> Then there should be no cancer in
Arkansas.
Yeah. But but but the problem is obesity
is rep is is replacing smoking and it's
often associated with diet type 2
diabetes, hypertension, high blood
pressure in systemic inflammation. All
of those things damage mitochondrial
function chronically leading to
compensatory substrate level
phosphorilation or fermentation and the
onset of cancer. So uh this is no
mystery here. Uh you know what's going
on? We already know all the provocative
agents that can elicit mitochondrial
damage. You avoid those processes. You
keep your mitochondria healthy and it's
very difficult for a person to get
cancer when they're mitochondria
healthy. Then you throw in on top of
obesity uh and some of these other no
exercise, obesity, poor sleep, uh
chronic stress. Uh then you throw in
microlastics, forever chemicals, uh GMO
foods. uh you throw in all these kinds
of things and they all come together uh
in a in a synergistic way to damage
mitochondria chronically leading to
compensatory fermentation and
disregulated growth. No mystery. No
mystery here at all.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And our our everinccreasing
artificial lifestyle, right, where we
hide from the sun and and don't embrace
anything with uh outside for the most
part. So, one thing I want I want to get
your take on is kind of twofold. Um Doug
Wallace has laid out the idea of
heteroplasm, right? And so as we age,
the efficiency of the mitochondria
decreases. And I find I find the topic
of mitochondria producing more than just
ATP very very fascinating. Right? So we
have have metabolic water or CO2. We
have we have light. Um we have uh aside
from just ATP. So if you don't care, can
you go into how how can we take some of
what Dr. Wallace has done with with your
aspects of this and then if you have any
thoughts on on Gilbert Lang saying that
basically ATP there's not enough to
power the body wholly. There has to be
something else going on to produce
energy.
>> Well, I don't know anything else that
but but ATP that can produce energy. You
want you want to know about that? Take
cyanide. See how how long you live
without energy. It's just that simple.
You want to tell you don't think ATP is
important? Okay. drink the Kool-Aid with
the cyanide lace Kool-Aid. Well, you
say, "What happened? I'm dead." Yeah,
you're dead real quick because you took
ATP away from your body. And as a matter
of fact, cancer cells can live in at
cancer cells can live in cyanide because
they're not using they're not using
oxidative phosphorilation. They're using
substrate level phosphorilation, which
is a fermentation mechanism. That tells
us right off the bat that you know
what's going on with these cancer cells.
Um but yeah the point is the point you
raised an extremely extremely important
point. Yes it is true that the
mitochondria do a lot of things and a
matter matter of fact the mitochondria
control our destiny. How long we will
live as an entity on the planet is
controlled by the mitochondria because
we die from the second law of
thermodynamics which is entropy. Entropy
is damage and dysfunction. Okay. And
eventually when our mitochondria run out
of energy because they're defective and
just uh we are programmed to die uh
within a certain uh range. Okay. Uh the
oldest person that ever lived uh uh on
the planet was Madame Clement from
France. Lived 122 years. Okay. She set
the record by how long a human being
could possibly live. And then and then
you know most people are dying in their
late 70s 80s. you know, they're they're
running out of energy. If you die
naturally, not rather than being run
over by a car or shot or something like
this. I mean, this is a different thing,
but but natural aging. Natural aging.
So, the mitochondria and our cells just
accumulate wear and tear uh over over
the years a uh we just run out of we run
out of energy ATP and we die. But in
cancer, cancer cells keep growing and
growing and growing. All right? And um
why are they no longer regulated? That's
what we say, dysregulation. It's the
mitochondria that is responsible for the
disregulated growth. How do we know
this? Because you're you're you're
right, Logan. It's not just the ATP.
It's this proton mode of gradient inside
the mitochondria that controls
uh flux of of a of a of an ion called
calcium. Calcium flux is regulated by
the inner membrane of the mitochondria.
So mitochondria can take up calcium and
release calcium, take up calcium and it
does it in a very regulated way because
this controls many of the biochemical
processes of the cell. Um and uh cancer
has a cell cycle. It goes through a
cycle of growth. You you have um you you
you replicate DNA. you have
cytochinesis, the cells separate and in
normal wear and tear uh we can we can
build like in our gut and other tissues
we we can build new cells and the cells
will replace naturally dead cells. So
we're as one group is dying we have
another group coming in but this group
coming in is regulated in its growth.
It's not disregulated in its growth and
the mitochondria control that
regulation. When that organel loses that
proton motive gradient the and which is
linked to oxidative phosphorilation by
the way the cell cycle which is
dependent on those calcium fluxes is no
longer regulated. So the energy of the
mitochondria and the proton mode of
gradient regulate the division of the
cell and the quiescent state of the cell
meaning it shouldn't grow. I'm doing
what I do. I don't have to the cell no
longer needs to grow because the
mitochondria are regulating the growth
of the cell. So when that organel
becomes corrupted and not functioning
this cell now falls back on a
disregulated starts to grow. Now the
mitochondria also contain the kill
switch for uh our life. So what happens
sometimes is that when when when
mitochondria or something happens and
mito when when when something happens in
the cell that might be threatening to uh
its existence the mitochondria triggers
the release of cytochromes which is an
apotic signaling program cell death. So
when we have programmed cell death the
cell dies who controls program well who
what organel controls the program it is
the mitochondria controls the program.
So when that organel becomes corrupted
gradually over time not acutely a
gradual corruption of the ability of
that cell to generate energy efficiently
uh it loses control o of the cell and
the cell falls back on these ancient
pathways because what's keeping it from
the ancient pathways is the efficiency
of oxidative phosphorilation. So
insufficient oxidative phosphorilation
the cell loses its growth control cell
falls back on proliferation which is the
default state of all cells. what's
keeping them from growing being out of
control the the the function of the
mitochondrial proton motor gradient
which is in fact linked to ATP
synthesis. So, we know biologically,
evolutionary biology, why we're seeing
what we're seeing. And more importantly,
if this is uh growing out of control, uh
what what is fueling what's fueling this
disregulated growth? And we know it's
glucose and glutamine. Those are the
only two fuels. How do we know that?
Because we tested the fuels. We tested
all the things these cells can use. And
we eliminate or they only we find these
two fuels are the are the key things
driving this. So, all other things in my
mind are secondary. If you want to kill
the cancer and you want to do it without
toxicity, you have to strategically
target the two fermentable fuels while
transitioning the whole body over to
ketones. And then we pulse the targeting
of the glutamine, killing and gradually
destroying the tumor and let the normal
immune cells come in and pick up the
dead corpses and get rid of the damn
tumor. So, uh, the problem is what I'm
telling you. I might as well be talking
to plug sockets because people don't
understand what the hell I'm talking
about. You know, I, you know, it's just
I don't know. I don't know. I have to
use crayons. You know, I I don't know
what I have to do.
So, you know, you you've hit on a couple
things. I think Nick Lane lays out a lot
of what you're saying about the
reversion of the the ancient pathways
and stuff. I think there there's some
great great stuff in his work. Um, Mhm.
>> I I have found
the different routes of metabolism to be
absolutely fascinating and and when I
know we go into essentially, you know,
the Warberg metabolism, but when you
look at say glycolysis versus ketosis
versus beta oxidation versus the pentos
phosphate pathway, like there's a lot of
things going out and that they they they
change, right? And so like Dr.
interesting food. Something that I find
fascinating is that if we can take our
macros, right, our fat or protein and
our carbohydrates, the end result
through metabolism has a differing
degree in the molecules of water
produced, right? I don't think that that
has no variance, right? So fat
metabolism produces more metabolic water
than than carbohydrates, which are the
least. Do you think let's just say just
for argument sake, right? Do you think
that the water aspect is playing in a
role that maybe we don't understand?
>> Well, uh if it is I don't know about it.
I I don't see much difference. Um you
know fatty acids, ketone bodies um and
pyuvate. I mean everything is broken
down in into uh even the proteins you
either have acetil coa uh coming from a
variety of of things are broken down um
in the stomach and the intestines and
releasing these metabolites back into
the bloodstream. Um what comes into the
cell is predominantly glucose and um uh
and you can get fat. Some cell some
brain cells don't use fatty acids. So uh
they're they're only two fuels glucose
and and fat and ketone body beta
hydroxybutyrate. They don't burn they
don't burn fatty acids. Um the heart can
burn fatty acids and glucose. Um the
proteins are broken down into acetil
coa. So that that that's coming back. So
is glu in fact all the fatty acids are
broken down into acetil coa. Uh most of
these things are broken down into acetil
coa. uh glutamine comes in um in a
different pathway. It comes in through
the glutaminolysis pathway. It's an
anapllorotic pathway. But as far as
water is concerned, water is coming from
oxygen. So so uh oxygen is reduced to uh
water. So if you stop breathing, you're
you're not going to produce water
because there's no oxygen coming into
the system. So um oxygen is the final
acceptor pulls the electrons through the
electron transport chain. So if the
oxygen if you don't breathe uh you're
not going to make water, right? I mean
there's no the water comes from the
oxygen combining with the electrons of
the food you ate. So um so I I'm not
looking at water a as a um as a real
it's a downstream thing. Uh what we what
we really need to know is the role of
oxygen because uh cancer cells can grow
without oxygen. So do they produce
water? uh they produce a little bit of
water um because there is some electron
transport chain working uh it's just
that it's not linked to ATP synthesis
through the the F1M ATPs which we call
complex 5. So that's where you get the
energy from but the oxygen is on complex
4 pulling those electrons down and
producing water and and don't forget CO2
is the other byproduct. So if you have
very efficient respiration, don't forget
every we take in oxygen and every breath
that we exhale has moisture um and CO2
which is water and CO2 from the foods
that we ate. Um now you do get more
energy uh um uh well you know when you
say oh yeah fatty acids give you a lot
of carbon hydrogen bonds. Uh and don't
forget every time we break a carbon
hydrogen bond we're releasing the energy
of the sun which eventually which came
to us through a photosynthetic process.
So the sun makes carbon hydrogen bonds
during the photosynthetic process. When
we eat foods we break those carbon
hydrogen bonds and capture the energy of
the sun in the electron transport chain.
So we're just getting the energy of the
and we're and we're doing it in a very
graded and and a very graded and
regulated way. So um this is normal
physiological metabolism um but uh uh
ketone body by by Vich now Vichch was a
very smart guy NIH guy uh a collaborator
of mine Hans Krebs his last student so
we would talk for hours and hours about
this stuff and um yeah we we know that
ketone bodies are more energy efficient
uh than either pyuvate or fatty acids.
fatty acids have so many carbon hydrogen
bonds they'll actually dissipate the
proton motive gradient uh uh then
release u uncoupling proteins are
upregulated and it's like having a
pressure cooker so much pressure in
there you have to let some of the
pressure out a little bit and that's
that's from fat your fatty acids
generally will do that carbs don't
generally do that and certainly uh
ketone bodies don't do that so again uh
you have to know how everything is
broken down into these common pathways
uh to generate the energy of our cell.
And yes, energy in my mind is essential
for everything. Without energy, nothing
can live. Nothing can live without
energy. And cyanide shows you that. And
now the key thing is cyanide doesn't
kill the cancer cell. That's the key. So
it gets energy without oxygen.
Therefore, it can it can survive uh
hypoxia. It can grow in a hypoxic. Very
minimal oxygen. It can grow in cyanide.
We know we tested all this. We did the
experiments next door here. So, um, so
we're in the business of killing tumor
cells without without toxicity. That's
the key. That's what we're doing. Uh,
and people need to know that we're
hellbent on killing tumor cells without
toxicity and showing the results uh,
that can happen and and that's our focus
and that's what we do.
>> Well, being being on the front lines and
watching my baby go through traditional
treatments, I I can appreciate the
admirable quest of doing it without
toxicity. I I guarantee you. So where
where have you seen the
maybe a region or a a health center
whatever where they are applying this
with with good results is is there
something that comes to mind?
>> Yeah. Well most of it right now is hit
or miss. Um nobody is following exactly
what Dr. Durier and I and others have
put together. um mainly because we can't
the system does not presently allow
this. Um we find that in hospitals
they'll say oh maybe for glyobblasto
we'll consider metabolic therapy only
after the standard of care doesn't work.
Well the standard of care almost never
works. So what the hell are you doing?
And and this is the problem. They say,
"Okay, we're going to do standard of
care and then we're going to do standard
of care uh metabolic therapy following
the failure of standard of care." And
they call that for recurrent
glyobblasto. But where the hell is
metabolic therapy without the standard
of care or modified standard of care? We
we certainly think we certainly think
that uh surgery is a necessary component
for managing glyopblasto. But we can
shrink the tumor down, make it indolent
and then surgically debulk it. Okay? And
then follow it on with more metabolic
therapy. And we don't need temolomide.
And if we do need temolomide, we would
use it in very very low dosages. So
every we we we just have to know what to
do and how to do it. We know the tumor
cell cannot survive with the two the two
fuels. Um and they can't switch to
ketone bodies. So, why would anyone want
to do anything that doesn't target the
prime problem of the cancer? Oh, we're
going to use a a virus. Oh, we're going
to use a vaccine. Oh, we're going to use
this. Oh, we're going to take away the
damn fermentable fuels. That's what you
need to do. Why is that so hard for
anybody to understand? They keep
throwing all this crazy stuff, you know,
polio virus in the brain. What are you
kidding me? I mean, how could you? They
put some space helmet on some of these
poor guys and blast your head with ra
with with electricity. I mean this is
like I told many people this is
medieval.
>> This crazy stuff is medieval. The two
fuels are telling us please take away
our fermentable fuels and you will get
success. So I don't know it's just
crazy.
>> Well Dr. I mean broke
>> we're not we're not winning this this
war uh against cancer. Uh I'm I'm seeing
it increasing extremely fast. I I get
contacted based on how you know having
having the the podcast and and the
market and being very open with our
journey. A lot of people are just scared
looking for answers. It's very confusing
out there. And so I I see on like that
front lines that it's not getting
better, right? To to to your point. So
obviously you what you said was
extremely simple. Remove the fuel,
right? A car can't run without gas. Just
take the gas out, right?
>> Yeah. Well, that's it. And what does
what does the gasoline produce? Energy,
>> right? And what does it what does it do?
It combines with octane and oxygen and a
spark.
>> Octane, oxygen, and a spark. And the
waste products are CO2 and water besides
some other uh contaminants that your
catalytic converter is supposed to take
care of. So, so there there's the
energy, right? You don't have energy,
your car can't go. Um, you you could
have gasoline and no spark. You can have
oxygen and no gasoline, but you have to
have all three of these together uh to
drive to drive the energy of the car.
And you're right, I it's it behooves me
and I I there are many reasons why what
I'm saying cannot be readily adapted. Uh
number one is the world thinks cancer is
a genetic disease. Um the N National
Cancer Institute says clearly on their
website that cancer is a genetic
disease. Nothing nothing could be
further from the scientific evidence it
it is not a genetic disease. But when
the National Cancer Institute tells the
world that it is and your research
grants at the top medical schools are
all based on on hunting for genes uh
sequencing mutations and looking at this
and looking at that, you're not going to
make any advance in the field. And the
new data just came out the other day. We
now have 1700 people a day dying from
cancer in the United States. And that
comes to 70 people an hour. As you and I
are talking, people are dying from
cancer in all these different hospitals
around the country. So,
>> do you have hope? Do you have hope that
that paradigm is going to change?
>> Absolutely. We can change it within
three to four or five years and and a
10-year period once you target the two
fuels and transition the body over to
nutritional ketosis. It's a process.
It's a process. We know how to do it. We
have evidence to say this is it because
cancer is a mitochondrial metabolic
disorder. It's not a genetic disorder.
So, we know how to do it. You set the
trials up and we'll show you the
evidence. Who's going to pay for these
trials? The National Cancer Institute.
They think it's a genetic disease.
They're willing to put billions of
dollars into these crazy vaccines, these
imunotherapies that are not working for
the majority of people because all of
those therapies are based on a flawed
theory uh for the disease. When the
theory is wrong, the outcome will never
be optimal. So all we do is make small
incremental advances and they're always
looking at progressionfree survival. In
other words, how does your tumor look
and how rather than overall survival,
forget about this progression free
survival. You want overall survival. You
got a drug that works. Show me a show me
a three or four year extension of your
life with a high quality of life. No
sickness, no fatigue, none of that
stuff. Then you got something. That's
what metabolic therapy. You want to know
what it is? That's metabolic therapy.
Yeah.
>> Are you and Travis Kristofferson still
still working on different things
together? Um what's what's uh what's the
latest on that?
>> Well, what's the latest on that is that
we we have worked together on defining
the uh strategies for putting uh stress.
Travis was uh or um uh well what' you
say do Travis Kristofferson? Okay. Well,
Travis supports our research through his
foundation.
>> So Travis and I are discussing all the
time on this. Uh but Travis his his um
foundation for cancer metabolic therapy
supports our research through
philanthropy. So philanthropy gives
money to Travis. I get the money from
Travis. I run the experiments over and
over and over again. We're trying to
find some flaw in our understanding of
cancer as a metabolic disease. And so
far we have not found flaw. So what what
we can do is simply perfect perfect uh
and show over and over again that all
different kinds of cancers, breast
cancer, colon cancer, bladder cancer, uh
you you name it, melanomas, blood
cancers, they all have the same problem.
They're all fermenttors. They're all
driven by glucose and glutamine. So this
one therapy should be effective if done
correctly for all the major cancers. But
it's not being done because the world
thinks cancer is a genetic disease and
they keep throwing billions and billions
of dollars at these at these um
ineffective strategies. So at what time
now Travis of course he wrote that
wonderful book tripping over the truth.
Uh he wrote another book on on the
fourth fuel ketone body talking about
how important that is as a fuel. So um
so he's been working very hard also
together and we work as a team uh
together and I work with a lot of
finally some MDs physicians and people
are coming around to know um but setting
up a clinical trial and we're talking to
folks now believe me there are a lot of
MDs physicians oncologists that would
love to flesh out the exact strategy
that we have but we have too many
restrictions because some of these guys
feel they're going to lose their license
to practice medicine if they do
something outside of the standard of
care. So, we have to we have to educ I
don't know if we can educate these
folks. Some of these folks are can't be
educated. So, um the patients know the
patients have to rise up and make the
decision. It's going to be guys like you
who've lost people who have lost loved
ones to cancer and have seen the
consequences of what this medieval
standard of care is doing to people.
That does not have to happen. That does
not have to happen. We can manage cancer
without toxicity if done correctly. We
know what to do and how to do it. And we
wrote the the the we're the tip of the
spear on this whole thing. The problem
is the system does not allow to what I'm
saying to take place.
>> So are you are you hopeful that we may
have a shift in the system?
>> Uh it depends if on the people. Uh it
ain't going to come from the top medical
schools. I can tell you that right now.
They're they're they're too in bed with
each other. They're backs slapping.
Everything is looking good. Massive je
revenue generation from these
procedures. You think they want to
change? I don't think they want to
change. Okay. Is the NIH going all of a
sudden, geez, we made a terrible mistake
over the last 55 70 years? Maybe maybe
we should re revamp the whole the whole
the whole program here, right? Oh, yeah.
Go. Oh, my my bad. My bad. You know, uh
10 million people dead. My bad. You
know, it's like, what the hell? We had
this information, but I tell you, we had
the information, but nobody uh until we
came along, nobody was able to connect
the dots. We we're the first guy to show
a novel finding in the cancer, and that
is these mitochondria are fermenting
glutamine. They're not respiring
glutamine. This is a a big breakthrough
because now we know that the
mitochondria can do two things. it can
get energy from oxygen and when that
doesn't happen it can shift to a ancient
fermentation pathway which is dumping
out suinic acid as a waste product. So
that's a big breakthrough. People don't
people will come to know what we've done
in this breakthrough. It's not obvious
because it's very difficult.
Why why do you think that you have had a
message that has resonated with so many
people for one and that is contrary to
the the paradigm and then how have you
been able to say these things that go
against like kind of like what you just
said academia is not looking at this
right they don't want to change it's not
going to be changed from top so why are
you able to say it and why do you think
it's resonated
>> I can say it because I did the damn
experiments
Well, I mean, why why does your
university uh you know, they they let
you say it, right? Like whereas another
professor or something maybe said, "Hey,
we're we're not going to go that route."
So, that that's what I'm really curious
about.
>> Well, yeah. Well, I'm in a unique
position here. Uh I'm not in a medical
school. Um my my salary comes from
teaching uh uh graduate and
undergraduate students in the field of
of biology. Okay. So, so that's my
mission. That that's what the my my job
here at the university is. Um, but we do
basic research and Boston College does
not have a medical school. We're we're
one of the top u um you know ba basic
science and uh liberal arts universities
uh in the world. Um so we we focus our
focus is on on on Jesuit education.
We're a Jesuitdriven
uh university with a Jesuit philosophy.
We're not linked into the medical
schools. Uh I was at Yale University
Medical School for nine years. Uh and
you were only as good as your last
grant, the grant that you got from the
federal government, maintained your
position and recognition in that
department. If you lost your grants, you
would be eliminated uh or relegated to
some other activity. But if you're a
basic scientists in a in a in a medical
school, you better damn well make sure
you're bringing in revenue to that that
organization. Our mission here is under
undergraduate teaching and graduate
teaching. It does we don't have to have
uh uh uh well I mean you can still do
that ex I get money to do my research
from philanthropy uh and which is not
dependent on the federal government. So
therefore I can I can do the kinds of
experiments that I think we need to do
not have to do but need to do. U so that
and then we test all these things and
yeah if I were dependent on NIH money I
wouldn't I wouldn't have written my book
um I wouldn't have been able to do the
things I do and I can say what the hell
I want to say because I've got the
evidence to support what I'm saying.
It's not like they do. I'm the one doing
I we interrogated all these cancer
cells. I we do invivo in vitro. We we
have all the different mod. We've
developed the singular best animal
models of cancer. Natural models, not
these genetically constructed
monstrosities. We use natural models.
And and you try to cure cancer in a
mouse that has a natural cancer, it's
just as hard to try to do it in a human.
So we have not yet cured a mouse of
natural cancer. We have extended the
mouse's life massively, but we have not
yet achieved total success. That's why
our metabolic therapy should not ever be
considered a cure for cancer. It's a
it's a strategy for the non-toxic
management of cancer. Whether it leads
to a cure or not, we have no clue. But
we can know we can keep people alive or
animals alive far longer than what would
have been predicted. Are they cured? We
don't know. The only thing we ever cured
for sure was a dog with a with a a mass
cell tumor on his face. And we published
that paper on ketogenic metabolic
therapy for mass cell tumor in a dog.
Now the dog at at seven years old
developed this big tumor. The owner of
the dog gave him raw meat uh uh raw egg
and some fish oil and cut the calories
and did everything that we we would do
and the tumor disappeared and the dog
died from heart failure old age. a
pitbull died at 15 and a half years of
age, which is much longer than even the
normal dog eating kibbles and whatever
the hell they feed him. So, so the the
the the idea here is is that if you die
from old age when you had cancer as a
young a youngster uh and you die like 98
or 100 or 90 and the cancer never
returned, okay, you were probably cured.
But but we can't make that statement, a
blanket statement say, "Oh, we can
cure." No, I don't say we cure cancer. I
just say we have a better way to manage
it to keep the patient alive longer with
a higher quality of life, right? What's
wrong with that? Is there anything wrong
with that?
>> No, there's definitely nothing wrong
with that. I this it takes me back and
and my son's he's doing great, right?
This been six years into this journey.
But I remember looking at the oncologist
say what what do I feed him? And and I
was told it doesn't matter. And so that
to me is what set me off on this journey
of trying to understand because that
didn't sound right. It didn't feel
right. And based off what you're just
what you have laid out in the body of
work, it does matter.
>> It matters a lot. And not only that, if
you if you use metabolic therapy
correctly, you can still use standards
of care. You just have to know how to
use them in a better way. Uh there's a
place for radiation, there's a place for
chemo, there's a place for imunotherapy.
Uh all of those tools are used as as the
final as the final touch to get rid of
it. Um you don't go after the the the
bull when it's really strong. You shrink
that make that bull weak. Take away the
fuels and now he becomes much more
vulnerable to radiation chemo and
imunotherapies because it's it's almost
on death's doorstep. It's struggling for
existence. And then you can come in with
lowd dose chemo uh at at low doses so
the rest of the body is not getting
toxed and and the ketones will protect
the body against these other things. As
I tell many many people, we already have
all of the tools in the toolbox to
manage cancer very very effectively and
take the fear away from this disease and
we just have to know how to use it
better and and and we know how to use it
better. The problem is we it's not being
done. It's not being done.
>> Well, we're going to keep on working.
We're going to keep on learning and
trying to apply. Spread the spread the
word. I I can't thank you enough for
taking the time to visit with me. Um
would love anything anything you think
of that we can do to help. Um you know,
obviously supporting Travis's work uh
directly comes towards y'all. So, uh
that's something we'll we'll definitely
promote.
>> Yeah. Well, great. Thank you very much.